# SYSC 3010: SmartShelf Project
Have you ever walked into a store looking for an item and only to find out it’s out of stock on the shelf? Have you ever walked around the whole store looking for an employee to go look for an item in the back? Are you a grocery clerk who brought out products only to find the shelf already full with it?
Keeping shelves stocked with product is a logistics nightmare which can prove costly to retailers [1]. From our research we have found that “Every year, the average business spends between 25 to 35 percent of their operational budget on inventory costs alone”[1] Our shelf reduces these costs by helping business owners manage how much shock they have the shelf. According to a study done by IHL Group “Overstocks and out-of-stocks cost retailers $1.1 trillion globally in lost revenue”(2) Our shelf provides employees and managers direct knowledge of inventory and when shelves must be restocked. The Smart Shelf provides a more efficient way to keep track of inventory.
Our group has realized these problems as some of us work in grocery stores and have accoutered such problems daily. Working in customer service we have seen many customers complain about the shelves being empty. Our Smart Shelf overcomes these problems by informing store clerks when an item has run out of stock on the shelf, by providing businesses with data of how much an item is left in stock, and this product will help society assisting small business owners get started by managing their shelves and inventory.

